I used to work for a company that provided a software-as-a-service product to law enforcement, specifically jails. It was a small company, and I was a developer, trainer, and end-user support.  Note that jails do not close, which makes one very motivated to write solid, easy-to-use software and train the users very thoroughly.

One morning about 4 a.m. I got a phone call. Our software had stopped working.  "Okay, fine," I said, "uh, does this work? Can you get to the internet?" 
"No."
"OK, do a 'start,' 'run,' type 'CMD' and hit enter.  A black window? Good. Type 'ROUTE PRINT' and hit enter. Tell me what it says next to 'Default Route'."
"OK, type 'PING' and that string of numbers."
"No reply?"
"Hm. OK, look at the back of the computer. There should be a power cord, keyboard, mouse, and then one more... yeah, there's a blue cable lying on the floor that looks like a phone cord, but the end is too big?"
"OK, there's probably only one place on that back of the PC that will fit; plug it in there."
"It won't stay?"
"Wedge it in and push the computer against the wall so it stays... It works now?"
"Great, tell your local IT staff they need to replace that cable because the retainer clip is broken." 
"Yeah, no worries. OK, bye."  I even emailed the IT people and told them.

A week later, at 4 a.m., I got a phone call, same place, same story. I went straight to the blue cable, asked them to again tell their IT staff about it. I emailed their IT again.

I made a call to the facility commander, who laughed and said, "Yeah, we have a work crew that mops that room those nights, probably they move the machine and the cable falls out. I can never get IT out here."

A week later, I looked at the Caller ID and didn't even say hello. I put on my sleepiest voice and said, "There's a blue cable laying on the floor, plug it into the back of the machine. *click*."

Oddly, the calls stopped. The next time I talked to the commander, he said there was a note on the counter to plug in the blue cable, and I was some sort of god for being able to diagnose a problem in my sleep without them even saying anything...
